Joseph Kwaw Besoabewie

"I am Joseph Kwaw Besoabewie. I was born on December 7, 1977 in Accra. My hometown is Elubo, a border town in the western region of Ghana that is known for its crafts. I speak seven languages, which allows me to communicate throughout Ghana. 

I began painting in my childhood. I was fortunate to have a supportive family, as my father possessed a natural ability for art and guided me along in my early stages, before I started elementary school. After secondary school I attended the Ultimate School of Art from 1998 to 2000 and also studied at Magilo Art College from 2001 to 2002. 

"My love for painting has become the primary focus of my work; I devote most of my time to it. Because of my skill in painting I received a number of academic awards. I started off in 1992 with the junior Best Craft prize and in 1993, as a freshman in high school, I surpassed all peers as well as seniors to win the Best Student in Art award. I finished my academic career with a Best Painting Student prize. 

"Known for my stylistic versatility, I use various techniques for achieving an unusual range of styles, as I am always searching for new forms of expression. I feel as though my creativity is unlimited. It breaks boundaries, capturing that which is invisible and highlighting the beauty of the unseen. What inspires me to work is that, the more you paint, the more you become perfect. 

"I am not married, but plan to marry soon. I have trained five artists already and now have two undergoing training with me. Mostly I work from home and I have a small gallery in my house. The materials I use most are acrylics on canvas. 

"My work spans the globe, with collectors in Africa as well as throughout Europe, America, Asia, and the Middle East. I am also a member of the Ghana Visual Art Association (GAVA), and my work has been featured in many exhibitions. 

"Creativity is something that need not be copied because the canvas is a mode of expression that speaks about one's personal feelings, thoughts, and ideas. Artistic thoughts never cease. As long as dreaming creations occurs, art is a continuous journey, binding spirit to canvas." 

In 2007, UNICEF selected some paintings by Joseph, that were featured on Novica, to become included in the UNICEF greeting card collection.