Tanachai Ekuruchaitep

"My name is Tanachai Ekuruchaitep, I was born in Bangkok on September 6, 1967. I come from a warm family and I'm the youngest of six children. I love my home and my family, they make me feel optimistic when I meet other people. And artwork will be good if the artist feels good. I graduated from a high school nearby and I went on to study at the College of Fine Arts. My dream was to study art, so I decided to go to college. I found this place to be really good. I have grown as an artist and I have learned many techniques I never knew about before. 

"I love Thai culture very much. My works are always symbolic of Thailand. When I graduated, I freelanced for an advertising agency. They have given me a lot of work too, like creating backgrounds or paintings sets for a drama group or for television. It is a good job but I want to find something else. I'd love to live in a natural environment. My family home was surrounded by a garden and a canal. I had to live in a concrete building far from nature because of my job. 

"I've thought about my future. I love this job but I love to paint too. I'd love to live closer to nature and, one day, a friend invited me to live in the countryside. I found this place to be wonderful and I've start painting. 

"I have tried to study the culture of every region because they are very different from my own. I have traveled to many temples and got something from them - I found that Lanna (northern Thailand) murals, their lines, motifs and people are elegant and graceful. They make beautiful drawings and use excellent techniques. I want to capture that idea so I can adapt to it and that way be able to paint good compositions with acrylics. My favorite themes are the figure of Buddha and the northern Thai style. I'm always looking and thinking about color, composition, shape and idea. I have adapted the technique and blended old and new techniques as well as the northern and central regional styles and I have come up with a good style. Now I think I can find many ideas and everyone will love my work. 

"I'm not married yet but I feel free with this status. I'm excited to present my works on Novica. It's my new challenge and I hope foreigners will love my work."