Francisco Mauricio Ortiz

"I studied at the Ignacio Merino Escuela Superior de Arte in the city of Piura, graduating in 1970, and I have been dedicated professionally to painting ever since. Basically my paintings are figurative; the poetic and symbolic expression is currently present in my paintings, which initially were closer to Expressionism. For me painting is a passion, it is an expression that puts me into contact with others, that allows me to convert my reflections into images and thus reach the viewer through visual impact. Departing from the idea that art has a communicative function, I hope that the viewer enters into a dialogue with my painting; this strikes an appreciative equilibrium not only in its composite elements, but also puts into play his or her sensitivity so as to discover the meanings, which are none other than life, solitude, and the meanings of the transcendence of the same stone, 'the stones do not offend, they covet nothing - they only ask for the love of everyone, and they even ask for the love of nothing …' from Las Piedras by Cesar Vallejo. 

"The elaboration process of my paintings is not unique, however it involves the process of drawing sketches, studying details and the order of the composition, and studying small formatting variations at the beginning in order to achieve the desired work. I also stylize the elaboration of like series for the theme and some of its elements. I like the colors of orange, ocher, and gray, which represent the earth and life itself. When the viewer stops to contemplate and analyze my painting, it is likely that he or she will feel aesthetic pleasure. 

"I have held six individual exhibitions, five in Peru and one outside of the country, at the University of Loja, Ecuador in 1973. Also I have participated in more than a dozen collective exhibitions, including outside of the country at 'Memoria y herencia de arte actual peruano,' Lopez Villaseñor Museum, Madrid, Spain, 2000; Salón de Pintura Contemporánea de Integración Latinoamericana, Loja y Cuenca, Ecuador, 1992; and, 'Arte actual peruano,' RUSA Art Gallery, Laredo, Spain, 2001. In my own country, I've been part of 'Noche de Arte: Encuentro de dos mundos,' homage to David Herskivisttz, US Embassy, Lima, 1992; 'Pintura Piurana,' Guatemalan Embassy, 1994; 'Arte de hoy por los hombres de mañana,' Museum of the Nation, Lima, 1996; and, 'El Peru a Traves de sus Pintores,' Museum of the Nation, Lima, 1997. 

"It was definitely challenging for me to choose art, to persist with it despite all of the difficulties it presents, to firmly decide upon each phase of my work, always with the idea that the most important of all is the man himself. As a genuine artist I have an enormous predisposition for teaching my art, which I evidence in my work as an instructor, considering that I've been a teacher of art in secondary schools for more than 20 years, as well as being a professor at the School of Fine Arts for a year, and being responsible for the art page of El Tiempo newspaper in Piura for three years. Also I have exhibited my work in various cities, hamlets, and villages of my region. 

"To Novica clients I would like to say that, as a Peruvian artist, in my painting exhibit all of the composite elements that form part of a language seeking to transmit the very poetry of beings and things, whose final feeling depends upon the sensitivity of the viewer." 

Francisco Mauricio was born in 1949 in Sullana, in the state of Piura, Peru.