Mon

"Hello everyone. I'm Tossaporn Hongmanee but please call me Mon. I was born on February 3, 1980. I live together with my mother and younger brother. My mother looks after us very well and we are a happy family. I love her and I would like to thank her for everything she does for me – I love you, Mom! 

"I grew up with paper, pencils and colors. When I had time, I would study art and draw, draw, draw. I have been very close to my art teachers ever since kindergarten, and my artwork would always be displayed on the boards. I regularly participated in contests, sometimes getting rewards, sometimes not, but I did not feel bad or frustrated because it was just an experience for me. 

"I studied at the Institute of Technology for three years and received a vocational certificate in fine art. Then I continued my art studies in a diploma course. It was then that my art style blossomed, a right combination of accurate planning and exquisite creation. I exhibited some of this work and received the best school-record award as well as the first prize. I then sat for exams to study for a Bachelor's Degree in fine art at two universities. I was accepted at both, and in 2004 I entered the freshman class. 

"I once had a violent accident when boiling oil burned my leg terribly. It was so severe that the doctor almost cut off my leg to prevent me from dying. During the following six months I was treated in and out of the hospital. I realized what is truly important in life. This unfortunate encounter with pain, sorrow and death made me more mature and opened my heart and soul to a wider world and existence. I am also very grateful for those who supported me during this time. I think I now have a good outlook on life and I live in an easygoing kind of way. I attend college every day where I also enjoy time with my friends. Then I go back home in the evening to spend time with my family before creating art works at night. Life is wonderful! 

"Most of my art portrays Thailand, its culture, traditions and Buddha. Although I am not a Buddhist myself, I love Buddha and his story very much. I painted murals in temples several times and, as I am Thai, our culture and traditions have penetrated me ever since I was born. 

"I would like to thank Novica for making my works and my country travel around the world."