Tere Turu

"Hello. How are you? I'm Tere Turu and I was born in Mexico City amid pencils and paintbrushes. My grandfather was a lithographer and my father, Roberto García Castro, was a renowned watercolor artist in the city. He taught me, as I inherited his same passion for watercolors, for painting and for depicting the essence of my country. Ever since then, I've taken private painting classes with a number of specialized teachers. This is how I've discovered and modified my techniques on canvas, although – like my father – I specialized in watercolor. I've been fortunate, at this mature stage of my life, to be able to be a fulltime artist and savor my work along with the blessing of being a wife and mother. Mexico City has been a wonderful window of inspiration for my works with its majestic architecture – those windows and doors that speak for themselves. I don't just copy them, but I try to give them new life, transmitting the feelings these scenes elicit. 

"With oils, you can play, you can shade them, they become transparent or opaque. With watercolor, it is different. You first wet the paper and apply color while it is wet. Thus you can see how the colors mix and blend, and can present lovely transparencies. It is necessary to calculate how wet you want the paper and where you want the color to extend. 

"Since 1970, I've shown my work in galleries here in the capital and in other cities in Mexico, the U.S. and France. I belong to the Mexican Association of Postage Stamp Designers, with several stamps bearing my signature. I belonged to the Jardín del Arte, A.C. from 1977 to 200, and was its president in 1985 and 1986. 

"Beginning in 1970, I have participated in more than 40 collective exhibits and ten solo exhibits. Some of the group shows were held in prestigious venues such as the Palacio de Bellas Artes, Galería José María Velazco, Poliforum Cultural Siqueiros, Torre Domecq, Guadalupe Posada, Galerías Liverpool, Dos Puertas, Villa Magna, the Casas de Cultura in Mixcoac, Benito Juárez, Miguel Hidalgo, Xochimilco and Cuauhtémoc. Each year I participate in the American School Art Fair. In Texas, I've shown my work at the McAllen State Bank, the McAllen Civic Center, the San Antonio Arts Fair, and Sakowitz in Houston. My work has also been exhibited in Floralies Méditerranéenns in Bandol, Costa Azul of France. My paintings form part of private collections in the U.S., Canada, Venezuela, Panama, Brazil, Spain, France, Switzerland, Japan, Germany, Indonesia and Mexico."