Dinesh Kumawat

"Hello, my name is Dinesh Kumawat. I was born and raised in the colorful and mystical city of Jaipur, in Rajasthan. My passion for painting dates back to my youth. Much credit goes to my family, who have enjoyed a long relationship with paint and canvas. 

"My entire family, including my father and my uncle, had a keen interest in painting. They were already professionals in the field of miniature art. Along with my brother, I would often spend time learning to paint from them, and we practiced at home. It was great fun. I remember when I was just in 4th standard, there was a competition for children. Many students from different schools participated. We were all made to sit and sketch our favorite subject. I had never participated in any competition and I was so thrilled. I didn't know what theme or subject to choose, so I just drew all the children surrounding me, and the building standing in front of me. Surprisingly, my painting fetched fourth place. I was so excited. 

"After graduating from 12th standard, I enrolled in college and finished a BA in drawing. After that, I further pursued my master's in drawing and painting. Since my family was already into the field of art, it was not a difficult decision. With everyone's encouragement, I was able to achieve my dream. 

"I was so enamored by the color, texture and beauty of art that it became a part of my life. I would often spend my time experimenting with different media and themes – sometimes abstract, sometimes figurative, etc. I love working on portraits with Rajasthani themes. 

"In 1998, after receiving my master's, I wanted to share my knowledge with the people of my town. I thought teaching was the best way to do this. Before I started teaching, I did some exhibitions and also worked for a newspaper and taught school for a few months. Then I finally settled as a lecturer in my hometown. My wife is also an artist, with a master's degree in drawing. I have great respect for her, and we support each other immensely."